---
title: About
layout: pages
---

# Who am I? 

Kevin Esoh from Cameroon.

I did my undergrad studies in Cameroon at the University of Buea (UB)
from 2012-2015. I majored in Biochemistry which I was passionate about,
and minored in Medical Laboratory Technology. Thereafter, I registered
for an MSc in Biochemistry in UB and did 18 months before getting a
scholarship to study Bioinformatics in Kenya. I had become very
interested in Bioinformatics after undergrad, and during my MSc in
Biochemistry, I tried as much as possible to incoorporate bioinformatics
in my project. I initiated a project on reverse vaccinology for
onchocerciasis vaccine design which was basically to use bioinformatics
tools to design vaccines for the river blindness disease that is caused
by the parasite *Onchocerca volvulus*. In the last few months of my MSc
in Cameroon, I [screened](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B0rTlaNV5kvnTy0zY1RRY0Nld2c/view?resourcekey=0-gsC4CrSNEk4oVr96rVvvUw)
the entire proteome of *O. volvulus* (which consists of over 12,000
proteins) for antigenic or immunogenic proteins that could be used to
design vaccine candidates. Of course I did not complete the project due
to my scholarship award. However, my senior who was doing his PhD in
Belgium on diagnostic strategies very quickly advanced the project with
incredible success. I contibued working on the project with him and we
published one of the first comprehensive
[papers](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-019-40833-x) on reverse
vaccinology based on multiple predicted epitopes from different
antigenic proteins.

My MSc program in Bioinformatics was in a completely different field of
research, malaria. Interestingly, I had come to find great interest in
malaria research following an undergrad genetics course and the
perspective to life which biochemistry gave me. I looked at everything
with a molecular lens (at the molecular level), hence the coevolution of
malaria and sickle cell disease intrigued me. I still remember vividly
the conversation I had with my lecturer in 2014 around this coevolution
while we were walking towards the Biochemistry department after one of
his lectures. My scholarship was funded by
[DELGEME](https://www.delgeme.org/), one of the funding organizations
that had just been established under the [DELTAS
Africa](https://www.aasciences.africa/aesa/programmes/developing-excellence-leadership-training-and-science-africa-deltas-africa)
program by the African Academy of Sciences. My project was based on
screening the genomes of Cameroonian individuals with and without
malaria for genetic markers associated with more or less severe malaria
disease. I first had to characterized the genetic structure of the
population, and without any formal training on population genetics and
bioinformatics, I faced a very steep hill to climb. It was difficult,
but I was passionate about it. I read population genetics text books and
high quality papers. I finally attended a course on Genome-wide
association studies by the Wellcome Connecting Science in the UK and
that changed everything for me. Not that I learned bioinformatics there,
but the GWAS concepts I learned and the confidence I came out with,
having learned from the very bests in the field, was what changed
everything for me. I practiced with the course material day and night, I
studied population genetics method papers like Nick Patterson’s [paper on
EIGENSOFT](https://journals.plos.org/plosgenetics/article?id=10.1371/journal.pgen.0020190) 
(I cannot remember the number of times I read that paper in
2019 alone), and I made sure to solve every problem I encountered until
there was nothing I couldn’t do espcially regarding manupulating
genetic/genomic data file formats.

What is esohinformatics?
========================

What is the goal?
=================


<div class="actions ghbtn-container" align="center">
 <div class="ghbtn-group" align="left">
  <a href="/index.html" class="mybtn">Home</a>
  <!--a href="/project.html" class="mybtn">Projects</a-->
  <!--a href="/post.html" class="mybtn">Posts</a-->
  <!--a href="/workflow.html" class="mybtn">Workflows</a-->
  <!--a href="/video.html" class="mybtn">Videos</a-->
  <!--a href="/contact.html" class="mybtn">Contact</a-->
 </div>

 <div class="ghbtn-group" align="right">
  <a href="/about.html" class="mybtn">Back to top</a>
 </div>
</div>

